template: templates/en/projects/projectTemplate.ptl
title: Counterfeit Medicine (with solution)
credit: Chris Piech
solution: soln.py

## The Story
This problem starts with a sad story. When I was growing up in Kenya it was estimated that over 38% of medicines sold at pharmacies were fake [1]. That was a big problem! Depending on which organization you ask, deaths from counterfeit medicine ranged from 100,000 per year (WHO) to 700,000 (IPN) [2].

> Deaths from counterfeit drugs are equivalent to, "four fully laden jumbo jets crashing everyday" [2]

In 2009 a Ghanaian fellow named Bright Simmons came up with a straightforward technology solution he called mPedigree. He partnered with companies that make medicine. On each legitimate package of medicine they stamped a unique scratch code. Now when you buy medicine at a pharmacy in Kenya you check the scratch code and text message mPedigree. If the code is in their system, and has never been used before, mPedigree sends a text message back saying: "valid." There has been a 58% decrease in child deaths from Malaria alone [3]. Sometimes simple programming solutions can have a large, positive impact on the world.

## Your Job
Write a program that generates 10-digit numbers for 1,000 packages of medicine. Each number you generate should be (1) unique and (2) unpredictable.

Here is sample output from an example execution:

```
1000063221
1000144321
1000219310
1000369301
1000474307
1000594126
1000675471
1000766455
1000870655
1000974702
1001071787
1001125100
1001241855
1001361460
1001430979
1001546607
1001615135
1001797139
1001835707
...
```

Those numbers will be put on medicine packages. Counterfeiters won't stand a chance!

Ask questions if you don't understand something (or want to know more about counterfeit medicine).
