template: templates/en/projects/projectTemplate.ptl
title: Run, Sum, Run!
credit: Lisa Yan

File: `running_sum.py`

Write a program that reads in integers from the user and then outputs the current sum of the entered values. Here's what the output of the program should look like:

```
Enter integers, one at a time. I will show you the sum!
Please enter an integer: 3
The current sum is: 3 (1 integers entered)
Please enter an integer: 4
The current sum is: 7 (2 integers entered)
Please enter an integer: 5
The current sum is: 12 (3 integers entered)
Please enter an integer: 10
The current sum is: 22 (4 integers entered)
Please enter an integer: 3
The current sum is: 25 (5 integers entered)
Please enter an integer: 4
The current sum is: 29 (6 integers entered)
Please enter an integer: 1
The current sum is: 30 (7 integers entered)
Please enter an integer:
```

## An infinite loop

Remember in Karel, we wrote while loops that executed code until some particular condition is true? In Python, we can extend this idea to write a loop that executes *forever* (an infinite number of times). The basic structure looks like the below code, which will print "Hello" to the console an infinite number of times—one "Hello" on each line:

```
while True:
    print("Hello")
```

Because your program will just keep adding up user input until the end of time, your program should use an infinite loop.

**Caution**: Note that you need to keep track of some information that needs to stay somewhere between loop iterations (like the total sum so far). You can declare these variables *before* the infinite loop starts.

## Quitting your program
Remember that you can run your program in Pycharm's Terminal by typing `python3 runningsum.py` (if you are on Mac)
or `py runningsum.py` (if you are on PC). However, this program runs forever!

To exit a program that runs forever, hit `Ctrl-C` on your keyboard while in the Terminal. You should then be able
to run your program via the `python3 runningsum.py` or `py runningsum.py` again.

## Printing variables
Often in console programs it is necessary to print out values to the user in a string. Suppose you have a variable `total` that stores the number 55 and you want to output it. In your program, you should write:

```
print("The sum is: " + str(total))
```

If you run your program with the above input, the program will output the following to the console:

```
The sum is: 55
```

A more general form for printing out variables in code is:

```
"String message" + str(variable_name) + "more string message"
```
